---
layout: post
title: "A Bit For You"
excerpt: Some musings on a single, but potentially most important, bit.
tags: bit, musings, misc
date: 2024-03-24
katex: False
---


<div style="text-align:center">
This button will send a single bit.

<br/>
<br/>
<button name="TheButton">The Button</button>
<br/>
<br/>
This is no mindgame, no weird trolley-problem-monkey's-paw-dilemma.
</div>

<br/>

<div style="text-align:center">
<p>
*
</p>
</div>

This page, this post, pressing this button, are meant to be whatever they need to be
for you in this moment. 
The purpose of this singular bit is __entirely up to you__.
Take a second, and Consider The Button. What do you need from this?

<div style="text-align:center">
<p>
*
</p>
</div>

You probably already know if this was useful or not, but if you aren't being present,
take a second to think about "What The Button Can Do For You" before you continue reading
or your mind skips to The Next Thing.


## A Single Bit
Sometimes a single bit of information is sufficient,
if we have a predetermined context to understand that bit.
When scheduling over a chat, A question like "How's 2pm?"
should resolve in either two ways. If that is acceptable, it is confirmed
and we move on. Otherwise, we keep organizing. The amount of information
needed in the second case is significantly more and potentially unbounded; it could resolve
in postponing planning, deferring scheduling, and any number of additional "What about Y?"'s down
the road.

However, when the first case is true, we only need that one bit, and everything is done!
A "thumbs up" operates as this acknowledgement and end in richer chat programs. Otherwise,
things like "sure", "sounds good", "OK", "yup", etc. fill the gap, but they're sending 
more bits! The context (culture, mood, previous conversation) can lead to more
information being received than was meant to be sent.

With a single bit, you might have to assume the simplest intention of the sender. There
is no constraint on the space of possible meanings except that "We're good to go for 2pm".
More bits create additional, more complex interpretations of the sender's intent.

At the beginning of this post, there is a button to send a bit. The context I want
that bit to have is entirely up to you, and the receiver of that bit is _yourself_.
Is there something you need to do that you've been avoiding? Is there a thought
you have been avoiding thinking about? Do you need water? To stretch? Respond
to that other message? Have a meditative moment?

You might already know what you need, but perhaps you got distracted reading random
bullshit on the internet and forgot. Maybe that "bit" is a just a reminder.

Sometimes a single bit can get lost, and we need some integrity, or checksum,
or confirmation that the bit was received and interpreted
in the way we expect. We need to restrain
the context post-hoc. "Does 2 or 3 work?", "sounds good", "wait which one?".

These and the other bits in this post should suffice to be enough context
and error-checking for you and you, I think :).

<div style="text-align:center">
<p>
*
</p>
</div>

I often need reminders or jumpstarts to hack my brain into doing
things I want it to do. Most of the time a single bit is sufficient,
with maybe a bit of context. I know what that context is, I know what that bit is for,
I just needed it to be sent and _actually_ read. Hopefully in the vast distracting
world we now live in, this post and That Button can be A Bit For You.